Dev Ops Features that are currently in use:

Overview
1.Summary: contains a summary of the project.
2.DashBoard: a summary of the prints in that project.
3.Wiki: contians guides, steps or other important information that is relavent to the project.

Boards
1.Work Items: An unparented overall view of all user stories and bugs.
2.Boards: Contains the status wise view of all the stories that are in the project.
3.Backlogs: Contains a parent-child view of the Epics, Features, Stories, their tasks and the bugs with. them
4.Sprints: Contains the view of all the view backlog items.
5.Queires: Are used to get customized view of the backlog items for Alpha, Beta and Accptance Releases.
6.Delivery plans: Used to create plans for released.(Not created currently)
7.Analytics View: Analytics views lets the user create filtered views of simple Boards data for Power BI reporting.

Repos
1.Files: Contians the code files for the project.
2.Changesets: Tracks the changes made by individual developers in the code files.
3.Shelvesets: Code changes, revisions or comments that are saved by the individual developers.

Pipelines
1.Pipelines: Contains the CI/CD Pipelines for the project.
2.Environments: The pipelines are divided into their respective environments like Dev, staging, Production.
3.Releases: Shows the status of the deployments that are done on the specific environments.
4.Library: Contains the assets or variables required for to run the pipelines
5.Taskgroups: These contain tasks that are excuted in pipelines
6.Deployment Groups: Contain the environments and the tasks which are defined in the pipelines


Test plans
1.Test plans: Contain the manual testcases that can be run on the project environment.
2.Progress report: Contains the status of the testplans
3.Parameters: Any variables that are required for the running of the testplans.
4.Configurations: Contains the details of the browsers or system on which the Testplan is run.
5.Runs: Contains the detials of the Testplan runs.



Artifacts
1.Artifacts: Azure Artifacts enables developers to efficiently manage package types, including NuGet, npm, Python, Maven, Cargo, and Universal Packages.