Preface: as I used to say “If a software tester crashes a program, it is a successful day for them. With app **** I had no unsuccessful days”.

Start a program without internet connection. For some of them it is just enough.
Go forward and backwards, backwards and forward from/to every screen. Repeat. I found many crashes in mobile apps using just this simple move.
Move by different ways between screens and modes. Test items of different categories. For instance, try to search for products of various categories, in a native shop app. One app I tested could be crashed by searching for product of category Z and attempting to open its ordering page.
Move through program in circles. For instance, you have a news client app. Search -> Open article -> Open relevant article -> Search again … … … . If the program can not free memory at some page, soon you will crash it.
Refresh data. Try to leave app to “sleep” for some time, and then try to refresh data. Google, can you hear me? I crashed GMail mobile app many times on several smartphones just trying to refresh inbox. In fact so many times that I got tired of it and now checking my mail using Chrome only, not GMail app.
Similar move: put that app to background for some time, than return and try to do something.
Try to feed to program different input, variable and unexpected. One app was getting sort of integration with other app, a travel app. I created a travel without final date. Then the first app crashed every time I started it.
Big files. One iPad app was often crashed when opening enormous JPEG — 7mb in size.
Double tap / double click instead of single tap / click. Try it on different controls. It may crash app too.
Software implementing Monkey testing . Apart from standard “monkeys” you can implement one yourself. I did it several times. There are several advantages of such random torturing of the program: it does random actions (including some you won’t do), it does many actions, it does not get tired and can work days and nights. Every monkey tool I used, standard or custom written by myself, found crashes and still does.